# Understanding of Corporate Governance, Compliance and Ethics

## What is Governance?

* OECD defines corporate governance as involving a set of relationships between a company’s management, its board, its shareholders and other stakeholders. Corporate governance provides the structure through which the objectives of the company are set, and the means of attaining those objectives and monitoring performance are determined
* UK Governance Code defined corporate governance as "the system by which companies are directed and controlled"
  * Boards of directors are responsible for the governance of their companies. The shareholders’ role in governance is to appoint the directors and the auditors and to satisfy themselves that an appropriate governance structure is in place
  * Good governance is necessary for sustainable success. To succeed in the long term, companies must build and maintain relationships with a variety of stakeholders, which is accomplished by basing these relationships on trust and mutual benefit. Good corporate governance promotes integrity, openness, and responsiveness to diverse stakeholder interests
* Rules (regulation), principles and practices (private sector) that express corporate governance have evolved over time but its goal has remained constant: **to protect investors while attracting their capital**
  * Oversight of a board of directors whom represent shareholder interests is the structure most conducive to capital accumulation because investors must not worry about other investors of whom they have no basis to trust (i.e. locked-in capital effect). Instead, investors must only trust the ability of the board to make decisions that benefit them. Hence, ths has become dominant structure of corporate governance
* Three primary committees within a board of directors
  * Audit Committee
  * Nomination/Corporate Governance Committee - Qualifications, succession planning, shareholder engagement
  * Compensation committee - 

### G20/OECD Principles of Corporate Governance

* Set of principles **intended to help policymakers** evaluate and improve the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for corporate governance, with a view to support economic efficiency, sustainable growth and financial stability. Focused on larger publicly traded companies, though can also be useful tool for smaller unlisted companies
* Developed with an understanding that corporate governance policies have an important role to play in achieving broader economic objectives with respect to investor confidence, capital formation and allocation (quality of governance affects cost of capital and thus growth prospects). Incorporates non-economic factors of decision-making, such as ethical an environmental concerns
* These principles consist of
  * Ensuring the basis for an effective corporate governance framework - Should promote transparent and fair markets, and the efficient allocation of resources. It should be consistent with the rule of law and support effective supervision and enforcement. The division of responsibilities among different [regulatory] authorities should be clearly articulated and designed to serve the public interest. These authorities should have power, resources, and integrity to fulfill duties objectively
  * The rights and equitable treatment of shareholders and key ownership functions - The corporate governance framework should protect and facilitate the exercise of shareholders’ rights and ensure the equitable treatment of all shareholders, including minority and foreign shareholders. All shareholders should have the opportunity to obtain effective redress for violation of their rights. Markets for corporate control should be allowed to function in an efficient and transparent manner (e.g. should not shield management)
  * Institutional investors, stock markets, and other intermediaries - The corporate governance framework should provide sound incentives throughout the investment chain and provide for stock markets to function in a way that contributes to good corporate governance. Institutional investors (e.g. funds, asset managers, etc) that make decisions on behalf of beneficiaries should be transparent w/r/t governance and voting policies. Votes should be cast in line with directions from beneficial owners
  * The role of stakeholders in corporate governance - The corporate governance framework should recognize the rights of stakeholders established by law or through mutual agreements and encourage active co-operation between corporations and stakeholders in creating wealth, jobs, and the sustainability of financially sound enterprises
  * Disclosure and transparency - The corporate governance framework should ensure that timely and accurate disclosure is made on all material matters regarding the corporation, including the financial situation, performance, ownership, and governance of the company. This extends to transparency into board appointments, compensation decisions, and ownership structure
  * The responsibilities of the board - The corporate governance framework should ensure the strategic guidance of the company, the effective monitoring of management by the board, and the board’s accountability to the company and the shareholders. Board members should act in good faith and with due diligence on behalf of shareholders while also taking into consideration stakeholders and ethical standards

### UK Corporate Governance Code

* A framework consisting of broad principles that are at the heart of good corporate governance. These principles include:
  * **Board Leadership and Company Purpose** - Company should have established clear purpose, values, and strategy. Function of board is to promote long-term success: holding company accountable for adhering to these values, ensuring that company has resources to meet objectives, and establishing controls to assess and monitor performance
  * **Division of Responsibilities** - Clear division of responsibilities between the leadership of the board and the executive leadership of the company’s business. The board should include an appropriate combination of executive and non-executive (and independent) directors, such that no one individual or small group of individuals dominates the board’s decision-making
  * **Composition Succession and Evaluation** - Board appointments should be subject to rigorous procedure and succession plan should be maintained, each of which bases decisions on merit and objective criteria,. This is to ensure continuity and preservation of a diverse group with collectively broad experiences and expertise. Includes term limits, re-election, and evaluation criteria for appointments and assessments of current members
  * **Audit Risk and Internal Control** - Formal P&Ps to ensure independence/effectiveness of audit functions and integrity of financial/narrative statements. Presents fair and balanced account of company's position and prospects. Board should define organizational risk tolerance and oversee framework for internal monitoring of risks
  * **Remuneration** - Compensation policies and decisions should be transparent, support organizational strategy, and be aligned with values,  taking into account circumstances such as company and individual performance

### Commonsense Principles 2.0

* Series of corporate governance principles for public companies that are intended to provide a basic framework for sound, long-term-oriented governance. These include:
  * Duties, Composition and Internal Governance of the Board - Board of directors should be composed of individuals with competence and integrity needed to act in the interest of shareholders to whom it owes duty of loyalty and care. Should represent diverse range of backgrounds, skills, and knowledge as well as independence from company management. Shareholders should have rights to elect those whom they believe best represent their interests. Controls in place to ensure effectiveness of board
  * Board of Directors’ Responsibilities - Setting the board agenda, which includes forward looking discussions of the business, management performance, compensation, long-term strategic issues, opportunities to create shareholder value, transaction decisions, auditing/reporting, engaging shareholders and management, and others. Board should be concerned with big-picture and high-impact issues, minimizing time spent on non-essential matters and/or those which can be delegated to management
  * Shareholder Rights - Allow for proxy access for long-time shareholders that individually makeup large share of total market capitalization. Single class voting structure is best practice, as dual-class structures effectively disenfranchise a significant fraction of economic owners. Protective measures (e.g. poison pills) should not be used diminish accountability of board and/or management to shareholders
  * Public Reporting - Transparency around quarterly financial results is important, though it should be framed in the broader context of the company's long term goals/strategies rather than make short-term decisions. Level of guidance provided for reports should be determined in light of the benefit it poses to shareholders. Undertakings such as material mergers, restructuring, or significant capital commitments should be explained
  * Board Leadership - Should make leadership structure decisions most appropriate for the company while still preserving independence that is critical for good governance
  * Compensation of Management - Compensation plans should be appropriately tailored to the nature of the company’s business and the industry in which it competes. Competitive compensation is critical for attracting and retaining the best people, but these decisions should be made fairly, with transparency, and in alignment with company's overall values and goals
  * Investors’ Role in Corporate Governance - Institutional investors should exercise their voting rights thoughtfully, devoting sufficient time and resources to evaluate matters presented for shareholder vote in the context of long-term value creation
